Metadata and comments for Hayes and Piaggio's paper "What’s old is new again: assessing invasion potential of a rabies virus vector". 

Prepared by Mark A. Hayes, August 1, 2017. 

The csv "Hayes and Piaggio data.csv" contains the following information, derived using the VisTrails-SAHM software and the 
analysis described  in the methods section (this is a modified version of the "merged dataset file" produced by the 
VisTrails-SAHM software):

Column A, "x": Longitude of the location in decimal degrees, expressed to 3 decimal places.
Column B, "y": Latitude of the location in dedimal degrees, expressed to 3 decimal places.  
Column C, "response": "1" means the location was occupied by vampire bat (Desmodus rotundus). 
Column D, "bio2": Estimated mean diurnal temperature range (degrees C*10). The worldwide data is available here: http://www.worldclim.org/current.
Column E, "bio6": Estimated minimum temperature of the coldest month (degrees C*10). The worldwide data is available here: http://www.worldclim.org/current.
Column F, "bio12": Estimated annual precipitation (mm). The worldwide data is available here: http://www.worldclim.org/current.
Column G, "bio15": Estimated precipitation seasonality (coefficient of variation). The worldwide data is available here: http://www.worldclim.org/current. 
Column H, "bio19": Estimated precipitation of the coldest quarter (mm). The worldwide data is available here: http://www.worldclim.org/current.  

This analysis should be independently reproducible using the template, the occurrence locations in the csv 
(the x and y coordinates of the 1's), the predictor data available at the worldclim.org website, 
and following the methods section of the manuscript. Due to its large size, the tiff "Hayes and Piaggio template.tif" 
has not been uploaded here. This is the North American modeling template used for the analysis. 
The spatial reference for the template is the WGS 84 datum. Characteristics of the template are described in the methods. 
See the manuscript text for full descriptions of compiliation and vetting of Vampire bat data, selection of predictor variables, and 
final analysis. The full set of VisTrails-SAHM files, including the template, and associated files and data considered and used in this analysis can be obtained from Mark Hayes (hayes.a.mark@gmail.com).

The R file "Distance and correlation analysis" shows how distances among occurrence locations and spatial autocorrelation
were analyzed. To reproduce this analysis, open the R file, and follow the comments throughout, using the R package 'spatstat'.
This file first looks at pTTERNS OF distances among occurrence locations, then uses pair correlation function plots to look at 
patterns of spatial autocorrelation in the data, which suggests that autocorrelation likely is not an issue in this dataset, 
as analyzed using ~5 km x 5 km grid cell size. 

Information about the VisTrails-SAHM software used can be obtained here: 

https://www.fort.usgs.gov/sites/default/files/RAM/SAHM.html

The VisTrails-SAHM software can be accessed and downloaded free of charge at the USGS's ScienceBase Catalog here:

https://www.sciencebase.gov/catalog/item/55e9d780e4b0dacf699e798a
